Portfolio Optimization with R
===================================
***by Colin Boland***

Portfolio optimization is the process of choosing the proportions of various assets to be held in a portfolio, in such a way as to make the portfolio better than any other according to some criterion. The criterion will combine, directly or indirectly, considerations of the expected value of the portfolio's rate of return as well as of the return's dispersion and possibly other measures of financial risk.

Modern portfolio theory was pioneered by Harry Markowitz in 1952 and led him to being awarded the Nobel Prize in Economics in 1990. The theory assumes that an investor wants to maximize a portfolio's expected return contingent on any given amount of risk, with risk measured by the standard deviation of the portfolio's rate of return. For portfolios that meet this criterion, known as efficient portfolios, achieving a higher expected return requires taking on more risk, so investors are faced with a trade-off between risk and expected return. This risk-expected return relationship of efficient portfolios is graphically represented by a curve known as the efficient frontier. All efficient portfolios, each represented by a point on the efficient frontier, are well-diversified. For the specific formulas for efficient portfolios, see Portfolio separation in mean-variance analysis. While ignoring higher moments can lead to significant over-investment in risky securities, especially when volatility is high, the optimization of portfolios when return distributions are non-Gaussian is mathematically challenging.
